---
title: The Reality of Being Human
subtitle: Creating a life.
date: 2020-02-03T03:40:20.576Z
thumb_img_path: /images/navy-wf-football-game.jpg
content_img_path: /images/navy-wf-football-game.jpg
layout: post
---
*Navy at Wake Forest football game, Winston-Salem, NC, 11/23/2002. Right to left: Robert Owendoff (USNA '68), the author (Nowhere class of 'never), Admiral Naughton (USNA '68), and a classmate of theirs whose name I've forgotten (you guessed it–USNA '68).*\
\
*I recommend you read [The Art of Being Human](https://www.lowendcode.com/posts/the-art-of-being-human/) first if you have not already done so. It's a quick read that provides context for this.*

As a junior in high school I decided to apply for admission at the US Naval Academy. I wanted to make a career in the military, and it seemed becoming an officer was the way to go with better pay and more responsibilities. The service academies are all fine institutions and are as selective as Ivy League schools, but the USNA (also known as Annapolis) was my choice for a few reasons. One is I really liked the location the campus. Situated on the Chesapeake Bay in Annapolis, Maryland, a midshipman can enjoy crab cakes while sailing on a dinghy in between classes. The baroque architecture is bright and lively, not like the gloomy gothic revival fortress that is the US Military Academy in West Point, New York–where the cadets read by candlelight and sing Gregorian chants to pass the time. 

The only pictures anyone has seen of the US Air Force are of the chapel (google it and see if you can find anything different), and I was turned off of the USAFA partly because of this weird presentation by a recruiter at a service academies event. He was a lieutenant or captain in the Air Force, and he said "Why should you attend the US Air Force Academy? This is why you should want to attend the US Air Force Academy–these gold bars" *\*holds up pair of single gold bars that a newly commissioned 2nd lieutenant would wear\** I figured he'd read too much Robert Kiyosaki or Peter Schiff and was on a mission to tell high schoolers to do what they must to obtain the precious metal–if they can't buy gold, then they could become officers in the Air Force and have tax payers bank roll their gold bars. There were other weird parts to his presentation, and I remember 2 or 3 USAFA cadets had traveled with him and they were in on it too. 

In addition to the amenities and vibe of Annapolis, the institution also has a broad range of career opportunities. You can spend your summer flying T-38 supersonic jets, driving ships or subs in the ocean, rolling in surf and sand with Navy SEALs, and other exciting things. Upon graduation you can either be commissioned as an ensign in the Navy, or a 2nd lieutenant in the Marine Corps.

I had a family friend, the late Robert "Bob" Owendoff, who was both an Annapolis graduate (class of ’68) and a former professor. Bob took me to a Navy football game where he introduced me to then-superintendent of Annapolis, Admiral Richard Naughton, who was a classmate of his in 1968. That class was a "stars fell on..." sort with other notable alumni like Oliver North and Jim Webb. Bob retired from teaching at Annapolis, and he was a kind, generous person who spent his time looking after his airline captain wife’s two Bichon Frises (Beau & Ollie), volunteering as an usher at our church, and helping guide me through the process of applying to Annapolis. He was a genius who corrected errors on sundial information he discovered in the Encyclopedia Britannica and created land navigation guides that were used by the Cub Scouts and Marine and Army pilots in Vietnam–it’s an important detail to his story that he was only 16 years old when he did this. He went on to graduate from the academy and serve as a naval surface warfare officer before teaching subjects like nuclear thermodynamics at the academy. If you visit the academy today, you can see his graduating class’s gift which is a sundial inspired by his work. (I hope I can find the photograph I took beside the sundial and upload the image in this post.)

Admiral Naughton soon resigned from his position at the Academy after just on year on the job. Apparently, yelling at and assaulting a Marine on New Year's Eve wasn't good behavior from a Vice Admiral. He was demoted, decided to resign, and I lost my *in*. My next option was a congressional appointment and I learned that the competition was fierce. My congressional liaison told me my district competitors included kids who had all the boxes checked: Varsity letter athletes? Check. Perfect SAT score? Check. Class president? Check. I couldn’t ever compete with these kids who I assumed had always known they wanted to go to a service academy and spent their entire high school tenure campaigning for class president in the morning, practicing sports in the afternoon, and running drills for standardized testing in the evening. These ambitious teenagers also spent their weekends volunteering. I’d moved to a new state and enrolled in a private school my junior year of high school. I went out for football where I discovered that football is a great sport for breaking fingers (I missed half the season because I had pins surgically put into my finger) and I’ve got such a bad case of tendonitis in my ankles that I have vowed to never step foot into a pair of cleats again. 

I had trouble making friends the first year. The school assigned me a buddy who was the class Vice President, but he never followed up with me after our initial meeting. I made friends with some students who were seniors, and I was a mascot of sorts earning the nickname “adopted senior”. In hindsight, that wasn’t the best move since they’d be graduating and I’d have to start from scratch making new friends. Beginning my senior year, I campaigned for class Vice President. I knew it would be difficult to successfully run against the incumbent class president, so instead I made myself her running mate and vice-presidential candidate. I ran an inexpensive campaign which included doodling “Vote for Kyle–VP” notes and circulating them in classes. I was the only student campaigning for Vice President but I still lost to the incumbent Vice President. He was a cool guy, but I bet no one remembers he was Vice President but me. The high school was privately run by a Southern Baptist church which was once one of the largest churches in Charlotte, NC. It was an adjustment for me, because they didn’t assign homework on Wednesdays, just the other nights. The idea was to free students up to attend Wednesday evening Bible study at the church. However, my church had Bible study not on Wednesday but on Tuesday and I volunteered at my church and played bass guitar in the worship band–a time consuming commitment where I would need to practice songs during the week and arrive early before a worship service for rehearsal and soundcheck. It was a challenge that my study habits had not grown to match. Despite that, I made good grades in most subjects except for subjects that didn’t interest me at the time like chemistry. I had an SAT score of 1230 or 1260–I’m not certain which it was, but I know it was higher than the minimum required score at the time and it was higher than then POTUS George W. Bush, himself an Ivy League alum and earner of a 1206 SAT score (although it’s not fair to compare, since we took our tests decades apart and scoring likely changed, high school was a long time ago, and he and I have both had life experiences and lots of growth since then. He’s now a painter and artist, and I now work in technology. We both live in the great state of Texas at the time of this writing).

I don't remember when I received a rejection from Annapolis, but I didn't have a plan B. I remember telling someone my top 3 choices were "#1 Annapolis, #2 Annapolis, and #3 Annapolis". I hurried to get my transcript sent to University of North Carolina–Charlotte, and was admitted for the fall semester **just in time**. My plan was to be a engineering major since all plebes (first year midshipmen at Annapolis) must take the same classes as an engineering major. I could do well in these classes and that would bolster my chances of admission into Annapolis if I reapplied the next year. Turned out I hated the classes, well, I don't know if I hated it or if I hated seeing my dream slip away. My classmates at University of North Carolina–Charlotte wanted to pursue careers in motorsports and NASCAR, and that didn’t interest me much. In the spring and fall semesters I was enrolled in calculus, chemistry, physics, statistics, English, western civilization, and two other courses that were not in the engineering track for my degree: American military history, and jazz improvisation. The American military history professor was Dr. James K. Hogue who earned his PhD from Prince University, and formerly taught at the US Military Academy at West Point. 

I signed up for early morning classes so I could being productive, but I ended up filling up my afternoons and evenings working instead of studying–and I liked working because I received gratitude from satisfied customers, praise from management, and pay checks. This instant gratification made it seem like the goal posts for the Annapolis dream were moving further and further. After my first year of college I received a warning that I was in danger of being placed on academic probation if my grades dipped any lower. That was the nail in the coffin of my Annapolis dream, but more than that it was my childhood dream. I'd dreamed of a career in military service, and what could I do now? My eyesight had worsened in my late teens, and I knew they wouldn't let me do anything fun in the military unless I had perfect vision–but the service academies were paying for PRK to correct vision for their students, and that was another thing I missed out on. In my defeat, I'd also changed interests and hobbies. I no longer read military books for hours on end. Now I read music books and philosophy.
